Add Helm and Kubernetes tutorial (#864)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/tutorials/helm/index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Tutorial: Use Helm to run your first app"
linkTitle: "Helm application"
weight: 200
description: "Take a tour of Radius by updating an existing Helm chart to add Radius support."
categories: "Tutorial"
tags : ["kubernetes", "helm"]
---

This tutorial will teach you the following about Radius:

* How to use update a Helm chart to include its resources in a Radius application
* How to use features like Recipes and Connections within Kubernetes YAML or Helm.

> < image src="diagram.png" alt="Diagram of the application and its resources" width="500px" >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
< img src="diagram.png" alt="Diagram of the application and its resources" width="500px" >
```

Reviewer 2: this shortcode doesn't work in `v0.26` yet...

Reviewer: oh right switching back the suggestion to native img code

## Prerequisites

- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [Setup a supported Kubernetes cluster]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#supported-clusters" >}})

## Step 1. Clone and open the sample code

> {{< tabs "Codespace" "Local machine" >}}

Reviewer: We can remove the codespaces option since there are issues with cluster creation

Reviewer 2: commented out codespaces for now

{{% codetab %}}

It's easy and free to get up and running with a Radius Codespace in GitHub. Spin up a Radius environment in seconds with the following link:

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/radius-project/samples)

Once launched you should already have the application cloned locally. Use the terminal to navigate to the `./demo/` directory:

```bash
cd ./samples/demo
```

{{% /codetab %}}
{{% codetab %}}
Use the terminal to clone the `samples` repository locally and navigate to the `./samples/demo` directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/radius-project/samples.git
cd ./samples/samples/demo
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Step 2. Initialize Radius

Initialize Radius. For this example, answer **NO** when asked whether to set up an application: 

```bash
rad init
```

> Select 'No' when prompted to create an application.

## Step 3. Understand and deploy the application

> 1. Navigate to the `./Chart` folder and browse its contents. This contains a Helm chart for the application that you will modify.

Reviewer: rebased this PR -  https://github.com/radius-project/samples/pull/620/files and moved the chart templates inside the demo folder to match with the instructions

    metadata:
      name: webapp
      namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: webapp
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: webapp
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: webapp
            image: {{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
            env: 
            - name: CONNECTION_REDIS_URL
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: redis-secret
                  key: url
            ports:
            - containerPort: 3000
    ```

    The container that you will be working with is a ToDo application that uses Redis as a database. 

    - The container is configured to listen on port 3000.
    - The container will use the environment variable `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` to connect to Redis.
    - This `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` environment variable is populated by a Kubernetes Secret.

    You can deploy this application for the first time by following these steps:

    - Create the Kubernetes namespace `demo`
    - Create the Kubernetes Secret `redis-secret` containing the Redis URL.
    - Install the Helm chart.

>     {{< alert title="💡 Redis" color="info" >}}
>     For now you're not going to actually deploy Redis and the URL in this step is fake. You will deploy Redis using a Recipe later in the tutorial that will replace the fake URL contained within `redis-secret` with an actual container and URL.
>     {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< alert title="💡 Redis" color="info" >}} For now you're not going to actually deploy Redis and the URL in this step is fake. You will deploy Redis using a Recipe later in the tutorial that will replace the fake URL contained within `redis-secret` with an actual container and URL.{{< /alert >}}
```

Reviewer: small formatting change to avoid scrolling on the alerts

2. Complete these steps by running the following commands:

    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace demo
    kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://fake-server redis-secret 
    helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
    ```

    The output should look similar to the following:

    ```
    > kubectl create namespace demo
    namespace/demo created

    > kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://fake-server redis-secret 
    secret/redis-secret created

    > helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
    Release "demo" does not exist. Installing it now.
    NAME: demo
    LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 01:05:19 2023
    NAMESPACE: demo
    STATUS: deployed
    REVISION: 1
    TEST SUITE: None
    ```

>     {{< alert title="⚠️ Chart Directory" color="warning" >}}
>     If you see an error message like **Error: path "./Chart" not found** then you are in the wrong directory. Make sure your terminal is in the `./demo` directory of the `samples` repository.
>     {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< alert title="⚠️ Chart Directory" color="warning" >}} If you see an error message like **Error: path "./Chart" not found** then you are in the wrong directory. Make sure your terminal is in the `./demo` directory of the `samples` repository.{{< /alert >}}
```

    pod/webapp-79d5dfb99-mv6q9    1/1     Running   0         10m

    NAME                      READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    deployment.apps/webapp    1/1     1            1           10m

    NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
    replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99    1         1         1       10m
    ```

    Notice that the `AGE` of `pod/webapp-...` reflects the time of your **first** deployment. Enabling Radius for an application does not change any of its behaviors, so Kubernetes did not need to restart the container.

4. Now that Radius has been enabled, run this command to display the state of the Radius application:

    ```bash
    rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
    ```

    The output should look like this:

    ```
    > rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
    Displaying application: demo

    Name: webapp (Applications.Core/containers)
    Connections: (none)
    Resources:
      webapp (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)
    ```

    This means that Radius has found the Kubernetes `Deployment` running your container and cataloged it as part of the application. 

>     {{< alert title="💡 Application Name" color="info" >}}
>     Radius will use the Kubernetes namespace as the application name by default. 
>     {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< alert title="💡 Application Name" color="info" >}}Radius will use the Kubernetes namespace as the application name by default. {{< /alert >}}
```

    NAME                          TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    service/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6   ClusterIP   10.43.104.63   <none>        6379/TCP   51s

    NAME                                  READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    deployment.apps/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6   1/1     1            1           51s
    deployment.apps/webapp                1/1     1            1           52s

    NAME                                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
    replicaset.apps/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6-7bcd8b8d8d   1         1         1       51s
    replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99                 1         1         1       52s

    NAME                  TYPE                                  SECRET         STATUS
    recipe.radapp.io/db   Applications.Datastores/redisCaches   redis-secret   Ready
    ```

    Look at the status of the `recipe.radapp.io/db` resource. If the status is not `Ready`, then try running the command again after a delay. The status should show as `Ready` when the Recipe has fully-deployed. You can also see additional resources starting with `redis-`. These were created by the Recipe.

>     {{< alert title="⚠️ Missing resources" color="warning" >}}
>     If you do not see the additional resources starting with `redis-` then it's likely they are in a different Kubernetes namespace. Run `kubectl get all -A` to see everything.
>     {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< alert title="⚠️ Missing resources" color="warning" >}} If you do not see the additional resources starting with `redis-` then it's likely they are in a different Kubernetes namespace. Run `kubectl get all -A` to see everything.{{< /alert >}}
```

---
type: docs
title: "Tutorial: Use Helm to run your first app"
linkTitle: "Helm application"

> weight: 10

Reviewer 3: Could we slot this in beneath "New application" instead of above it?

description: "Take a tour of Radius by updating an existing Helm chart to add Radius support."
categories: "Tutorial"
tags : ["kubernetes", "helm"]
---

This tutorial will teach you the following about Radius:

* How to use update a Helm chart to include its resources in a Radius application
* How to use features like Recipes and Connections within Kubernetes YAML or Helm.

> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: webapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: webapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: webapp
        image: {{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
        env: 
        - name: CONNECTION_REDIS_URL
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: redis-secret
              key: url
        ports:
        - containerPort: 3000
```

The container that you will be working with is a ToDo application that uses Redis as a database. 

- The container is configured to listen on port 3000.
- The container will use the environment variable `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` to connect to Redis.
- This `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` environment variable is populated by a Kubernetes Secret.

You can deploy this application for the first time by following these steps:

- Create the Kubernetes namespace `demo`
- Create the Kubernetes Secret `redis-secret` containing the Redis URL.
- Install the Helm chart.

{{< alert title="💡 Redis" color="info" >}}

> For now you're not going to actually deploy Redis, the URL in this step is fake. You will deploy Redis using a Recipe later in the tutorial that will replace the fake URL contained within `redis-secret`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For now you're not going to actually deploy Redis and the URL in this step is fake. You will deploy Redis using a Recipe later in the tutorial that will replace the fake URL contained within `redis-secret` with an actual container and URL.
```

{{< /alert >}}

Complete these steps by running the following commands:

```bash
kubectl create namespace demo
kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://fake-server redis-secret 
helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
```

The output should look similar to the following:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

Outputs we don't want to have a dark background so we don't add an annotation to the code block

> kubectl create namespace demo
namespace/demo created

> > kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://redis-master:6379 redis-secret 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://fake-server redis-secret 
```

secret/redis-secret created

> helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
Release "demo" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 01:05:19 2023
NAMESPACE: demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```

{{< alert title="⚠️ Chart Directory" color="warning" >}}
If you see an error message like **Error: path "./Chart" not found** then you are in the wrong directory. Make sure your terminal is in the `./demo` directory of the `samples` repository.
{{< /alert >}}

Run the following command to check if everything is running:

```bash
kubectl get all -n demo
```

The output should look similar to the following:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

> kubectl get all -n demo
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/webapp-79d5dfb99-vhj9g   1/1     Running   0          2m48s

NAME                   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/webapp   1/1     1            1           2m49s

NAME                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE

> replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99   1         1         1       2m49s

Reviewer 3: The spacing doesn't look right on this. Could you take a look and make sure the columns and data are all aligned?

Reviewer 2: done

```

> The generated names and ages of the objects will be different in your output. Make sure you see the status of `Running` for the `pod/webapp-...` entry. If the status is not `Running`, try repeating the `kubectl get all -n demo` after waiting.

At this point you've deployed the application but you have not actually used Radius yet. You will start doing that in the next step, as well as set up and use Redis.

The steps so far are similar to how many applications are managed today:

- ⬜️ Dependencies like Redis are provisioned manually and separately from application deployment.
- ⬜️ Connection information like passwords and addresses is manually stored in secret stores.

> - ⬜️ Applications access the connection information from those secret stores when they are deployed.

Reviewer 3: What are the white boxes supposed to signify? We can probably delete these

Reviewer 2: I added them to better align with the checkmark emojis at the bottom -- I suppose I meant for the white boxes to represent blank checkboxes. Given that, do you think we should remove these? Should we remove the green checkbox emojis below too?

Reviewer 3: Hmm my preference is no checkboxes here but keep the green checks below, but not a strong opinion. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: removing!

Over the next few steps you will update this application to use Radius so that:

- ✅ Dependencies like Redis are provisioned on-demand when they are needed.
- ✅ Connection information is managed automatically, secret stores are an implementation detail.
- ✅ Applications have a documented relationship with the dependencies they connect to.

From here you will go through a series of steps to incrementally add more Radius features to the application.

## Step 4. Add Radius

Make sure the `app.yaml` file from `./demo/Chart/templates/app.yaml` is open in your editor. You will make some edits to this file to enable Radius.

Add the `annotations` property to `metadata`, and then add the `radapp.io/enabled: 'true'` annotation. The `'true'` must be surrounded in quotes.

The example below shows the updated `metadata` section after making the changes.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
  annotations:

>     radapp.io/enabled: 'true'

Reviewer 3: Can we find a way to highlight this similar to how we highlighted code in the getting started guide?

Reviewer 2: trying this to see if it'll work - might be tricky to format within a code block

Reviewer 2: looks like it's a tradeoff - can add highlighting on top of language based syntax highlighting...so I'll opt for an inline comment to make this clear.

spec:
...
```

Adding the `radapp.io/enabled: 'true'` annotation enables Radius for the deployment.

Save the file after you have made the edits and deploy the application again using Helm. Since the namespace and secret have already been created, we only need to run the `helm` command.

```bash
helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
```

The output should look like:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

> helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
Release "demo" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 01:31:58 2023
NAMESPACE: demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 2
TEST SUITE: None
```

You should confirm that your output contains `REVISION: 2`, that means that the changes were applied.

Run the following command to confirm that everything is running:

```bash
kubectl get all -n demo
```

The output should look similar to the following:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

> kubectl get all -n demo
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/webapp-79d5dfb99-mv6q9   1/1     Running   0          10m

NAME                   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/webapp   1/1     1            1           10m

NAME                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99   1         1         1       10m
```

Notice that the `AGE` of `pod/webapp-...` reflects the time of your **first** deployment. Enabling Radius for an application does not change any of its behaviors, so Kubernetes did not need to restart the container.

Now that Radius has been enabled, run this command to display the state of the Radius application:

```bash
rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
```

The output should look like this:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

- Add Redis to the application using a Recipe.
- Update the Kubernetes secret with the connection information from Redis.

First, check recipes installed in your environment by running:

```bash
rad recipe list
```

You will see output like this:

```
NAME      TYPE                                    TEMPLATE KIND  TEMPLATE VERSION  TEMPLATE
default   Applications.Datastores/sqlDatabases    bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/sqldatabases:latest
default   Applications.Messaging/rabbitMQQueues   bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/rabbitmqqueues:latest
default   Applications.Dapr/pubSubBrokers         bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/pubsubbrokers:latest
default   Applications.Dapr/secretStores          bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/secretstores:latest
default   Applications.Dapr/stateStores           bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/statestores:latest
default   Applications.Datastores/mongoDatabases  bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/mongodatabases:latest

> default   Applications.Datastores/redisCaches     bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/rediscaches:latest

Reviewer 3: These need to be updated to ghcr.io

Reviewer 2: done

```

The recipe for `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches` is what you will use in this example.

{{< alert title="💡 Recipes" color="info" >}}

>  Radius includes Recipes for local development when you use `rad init`. These **local-dev** Recipes run popular OSS technologies as containerized infrastructure without requiring a cloud account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 Radius includes Recipes for local development when you use `rad init`. These [**local-dev**](https://github.com/radius-project/recipes/tree/main/local-dev) Recipes run popular OSS technologies as containerized infrastructure without requiring a cloud account.
```

>  In a production environment you can substitute recipes that will create cloud or on-premises dependencies instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a production environment you can substitute recipes that will create cloud or on-premises dependencies instead.
```

{{< /alert >}}

Make sure the `app.yaml` file from `./demo/Chart/templates/app.yaml` is open in your editor. At the bottom of the file add the following text, including the `---`:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: radapp.io/v1alpha3
kind: Recipe
metadata:
  name: db
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
spec:
  type: Applications.Datastores/redisCaches
  secretName: redis-secret
```

Defining a `Recipe` object in Kubernetes will use a Radius Recipe to create dependencies for your application:

- The `.spec.type` field defines the type of resource to create. `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches` is the type for a Redis Cache.
- The `.spec.secretName` field tells Radius where to store connection information. This is optional, and should be used to interoperate with other Kubernetes technologies that read from secrets. This tutorial example uses the secret to populate an environment variable.

Save the file after you have made the edits and deploy the application again using Helm. Since the namespace and secret have already been created, you only need to run the `helm` command.

```bash
helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
```

The output should look like:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

> helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
Release "demo" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 01:44:04 2023
NAMESPACE: demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 3
TEST SUITE: None
```

This time you should see `REVISION: 3`.

Now that you are using a Recipe, you should see more resources running in Kubernetes. Run the following command:

```bash
kubectl get all -n demo
```

The output should look similar to the following:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

NAME                                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6-7bcd8b8d8d   1         1         1       51s
replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99                   1         1         1       52s

NAME                TYPE                                  SECRET         STATUS
recipe.radapp.io/db   Applications.Datastores/redisCaches   redis-secret   Ready
```

Look at the status of the `recipe.radapp.io/db` resource. If the status is not `Ready`, then try running the command again after a delay. The status should show as `Ready` when the Recipe has fully-deployed. You can also see additional resources starting with `redis-`. These were created by the Recipe.

{{< alert title="⚠️ Missing resources" color="warning" >}}
If you do not see the additional resources starting with `redis-` then it's likely they are in a different Kubernetes namespace. Run `kubectl get all -A` to see everything.
{{< /alert >}}

Now that you have added a Recipe, run this command to display the state of the Radius application:

```bash
rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
```

The output should look like this:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

Name: db (Applications.Datastores/redisCaches)
Connections: (none)
Resources:
  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)
  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: core/Service)

```

`rad app graph` shows the **Application Graph** of the application. This includes:

- Entries for each major resource: `webapp` is an `Applications.Core/containers` and `db` is an `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches`.
- Connections between resources: (none yet, you will add this next).
- Resources that were created: see the Kubernetes `Deployment` listed for `webapp` and the Kubernetes `Deployment` and `Service` listed for `db`.

The Redis Cache created by the recipe is visible as part of the application. You can also see the `Resources` created in Kubernetes that make up the Redis Cache. In a previous step you saw these listed by `kubectl`. Since Radius deployed the Recipe, it knows that these resources *logically* are part of the Redis Cache in the application.

You can also see the contents of `redis-secret` as created by Radius. Run the following command:

```bash
kubectl get secret -n demo redis-secret -o yaml
```

The output should look like the following:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
  annotations:
    radapp.io/enabled: 'true'
    radapp.io/connection-redis: 'db'
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: webapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: webapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: webapp
        image: {{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
        ports:
        - containerPort: 3000
---
apiVersion: radapp.io/v1alpha3
kind: Recipe
metadata:
  name: db
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
spec:
  type: Applications.Datastores/redisCaches
```

Save the file after you have made the edits and deploy the application again using Helm.

```bash
helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
```

The output should look like:

```txt
> helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
Release "demo" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 02:09:41 2023
NAMESPACE: demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 4
TEST SUITE: None
```

This time you should see `REVISION: 4`.

Check the status in Kubernetes again by running:

```bash
kubectl get all -n demo
```

The output should look like:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

service/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6   ClusterIP   10.43.104.63   <none>        6379/TCP   20m

NAME                                  READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6   1/1     1            1           20m
deployment.apps/webapp                  1/1     1            1           20m

NAME                                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6-7bcd8b8d8d   1         1         1       20m
replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99                   0         0         0       20m
replicaset.apps/webapp-76db7964d8                  1         1         1       37s
replicaset.apps/webapp-687dcf5cdf                  0         0         0       38s

NAME                TYPE                                  SECRET   STATUS
recipe.radapp.io/db   Applications.Datastores/redisCaches            Ready
```

Depending on the timing you may see pods in the `Terminating` state. This is normal as old replicas take some time to shut down.

Check the Radius status again. Now Radius is aware of the connection from `webapp->db`:

```bash
rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
```

The output should look like the example below:

> ```txt

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```
````

> rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
Displaying application: demo

Name: webapp (Applications.Core/containers)
Connections:
  webapp -> db (Applications.Datastores/redisCaches)
Resources:
  webapp (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)

Name: db (Applications.Datastores/redisCaches)
Connections:
  webapp (Applications.Core/containers) -> db
Resources:
  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)
  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: core/Service)

```

## Step 7. Try it out

In this step you can access the application and explore its features. Since the container is running inside Kubernetes, you need to run a port-forward to use it locally.

Run:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n demo deployment/webapp 3000
```

If you are inside Codespaces this will open a new browser tab that you can use to access the webapp. 

If you are not using Codespaces then open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

<img src="./demo-with-redis-screenshot.png" alt="Screenshot of the demo container" width=500>
<br /><br />

Congrats! You're running your first Radius app.

You can use the homepage to view information about the container and its settings.

> Navigate to the TODO List tab and test out the application. Using the TODO page will update the saved state in Redis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to the ToDo List tab and test out the application. Using the ToDo page will update the saved state in Redis.
```

<img src="./demo-with-todolist.png" alt="Screenshot of the todolist" width=500>
<br /><br />

When you're ready to move on to the next step, use `CTRL+C` to exit the command.

## Cleanup and next steps

> To delete your app, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: We should also add a note on how this also cleans up all resources created as part of Recipes

Reviewer 2: done

```bash
helm uninstall demo -n demo
```

In summary, this tutorial walked through a hands-on example to show you how-to:

- Enable Radius for a Helm or Kubernetes-based application to catalog your assets.
- Use Recipes to create dependencies either for development or production use.
- Use Connections to automate the management of connection information.

<br>

> {{< button text="Next step: Radius Tutorials" page="tutorials" >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< button text="Next step: Try another tutorial" page="tutorials" >}}
```

---
type: docs
title: "Tutorial: Getting started with Kubernetes: Use Helm to run your first app"
linkTitle: "Existing Kubernetes application"
weight: 10

> description: "Take a tour of Radius by updating an existing Helm chart."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: "Take a tour of Radius by updating an existing Helm chart to add Radius support."
```

categories: "Tutorial"
tags : ["kubernetes", "helm"]
---

> This tutorial will teach you the following about Radius

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tutorial will teach you the following about Radius:
```

> * How to use update a Helm chart to include an application in Radius.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* How to use update a Helm chart to include its resources in a Radius application
```

> * How to use features like Recipes and Connections from Kubernetes YAML or Helm.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* How to use features like Recipes and Connections within Kubernetes YAML or Helm.
```

> **Estimated time to complete: 10 min**

Reviewer 2: I don't think we include estimated times in our tutorials, so it might be better to remove this to remain consistent with our other tutorials?

Reviewer 3: Yeah I think the getting started guide makes sense to include it as it's a special-cased tutorial for new users, but overall let's not have estimated times. There actually is a built-in "estimated time to read" functionality in Radius but it's meant to be used just for articles and not interactive steps.

> **Estimated time to complete: 10 min**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> <img src="diagram.png" alt="Diagram of the application and its resources" width=500px >

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< image src="diagram.png" alt="Diagram of the application and its resources" width="500px" >}}
```

New shortcode

## Prerequisites

- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [Setup a supported Kubernetes cluster]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#supported-clusters" >}})

## 1. Clone and open the sample code

> {{< tabs "Codespaces" "non-Codespaces" >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< tabs "Codespace" "Local machine" >}}
```

{{% codetab %}}

> If you are using the Radius codespace you should already have the application cloned locally. Use the terminal to navigate to the `./demo/` directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's easy and free to get up and running with a Radius Codespace in GitHub. Spin up a Radius environment in seconds with the following link:

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/radius-project/samples)

Once launched you should already have the application cloned locally. Use the terminal to navigate to the `./demo/` directory:
```

```bash

> cd ./demo

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
cd ./samples/demo
```

```

{{% /codetab %}}

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

{{% codetab %}}
Use the terminal to clone the `samples` repository locally and navigate to the `./samples/demo` directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/radius-project/samples.git

> cd ./samples/demo

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
cd ./samples/samples/demo
```

```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## 2. Initialize Radius

Initialize Radius. For this example, answer **NO** when asked whether to set up an application: 

```bash
rad init
```

>    **Select 'No' when prompted to create an application.**

Reviewer 2: Non-binding suggestion to put this in a note-style reminder instead
```suggestion
> Select 'No' when prompted to create an application.
```

## 3. Understand and deploy the application

> Navigate to the `./Chart` folder and browse its contents. This contains a Helm chart for the application that will we modify.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the `./Chart` folder and browse its contents. This contains a Helm chart for the application that you will modify.
```

Here are the contents of `./demo/Chart/templates/app.yaml`. This file is part of the Helm chart, and describes the container used for this tutorial:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: webapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: webapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: webapp
        image: {{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
        env: 
        - name: CONNECTION_REDIS_URL
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: redis-secret
              key: url
        ports:
        - containerPort: 3000
```

> The container that you will be working with is a TODO application that uses Redis as a database. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The container that you will be working with is a ToDo application that uses Redis as a database. 
```

- The container is configured to listen on port 3000.
- The container will use the environment variable `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` to connect to Redis.
- This `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` environment variable is populated by a Kubernetes Secret.

> We can deploy this application for the first time by following these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can deploy this application for the first time by following these steps:
```

- Create the Kubernetes namespace `demo`

> - Create the Kubernetes Secret `redis-secret` holding the Redis URL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Create the Kubernetes Secret `redis-secret` containing the Redis URL.
```

- Install the Helm chart.

{{< alert title="💡 Redis" color="info" >}}
For now you're not going to actually deploy Redis, the URL in this step is fake. You will deploy Redis using a Recipe later in the tutorial.
{{< /alert >}}

Complete these steps by running the following commands:

```bash
kubectl create namespace demo
kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://redis-master:6379 redis-secret 
helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install

> ```

Reviewer 3: Hmmm this seems like a workaround for needing the secret later on. Can we either not use the secret for now, or crank up how obvious the dummy data is by passing in "redis://dummy-server"

> kubectl create secret generic --namespace demo --from-literal=url=redis://redis-master:6379 redis-secret 
secret/redis-secret created

> helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
Release "demo" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 01:05:19 2023
NAMESPACE: demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```

{{< alert title="⚠️ Chart Directory" color="warning" >}}
If you see an error message like **Error: path "./Chart" not found** then you are in the wrong directory. Make sure your terminal is in the `./demo` directory of the `samples` repository.
{{< /alert >}}

Run the following command to check if everything is running:

```bash
kubectl get all -n demo
```

The output should look similar to the following:

```txt
> kubectl get all -n demo
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/webapp-79d5dfb99-vhj9g   1/1     Running   0          2m48s

NAME                   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/webapp   1/1     1            1           2m49s

NAME                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99   1         1         1       2m49s
```

> The generated names and ages of the objects will be different in your output. Make sure you see the status of `Running` for the `pod/webapp-...` entry. If the status is not `Running`, try repeating the `kubectl get all -n demo` after waiting.

Reviewer 2: nonbinding suggestion to use note-style for this hint:
```suggestion
> The generated names and ages of the objects will be different in your output. Make sure you see the status of `Running` for the `pod/webapp-...` entry. If the status is not `Running`, try repeating the `kubectl get all -n demo` after waiting.
```

> At this point we've deployed the application but we have not actually used Radius yet. You will start doing that in the next step. You might also be wondering how we're going to use Redis as we have not set one up yet.

Reviewer 2: edits to remain consistently second person:

```suggestion
At this point you've deployed the application but you have not actually used Radius yet. You will start doing that in the next step, as well as set up and use Redis.
```

The steps so far are similar to how many applications are managed today:

> - Dependencies like Redis are provisioned manually and separately from application deployment.
> - Connection information like passwords and addresses is manually stored in secret stores.
> - Applications access the connection information from those secret stores when they are deployed.

Reviewer 2: some style suggestions to match the nice checkmark emojis you have below:

```suggestion
- ⬜️ Dependencies like Redis are provisioned manually and separately from application deployment.
- ⬜️ Connection information like passwords and addresses is manually stored in secret stores.
- ⬜️ Applications access the connection information from those secret stores when they are deployed.
```

Over the next few steps you will update this application to use Radius so that:

- ✅ Dependencies like Redis are provisioned on-demand when they are needed.
- ✅ Connection information is managed automatically, secret stores are an implementation detail.
- ✅ Applications have a documented relationship with the dependencies they connect to.

> From here you will go through a series of steps to incrementally add more of Radius' features to the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From here you will go through a series of steps to incrementally add more Radius features to the application.
```

> ## 5. Add Radius

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 4. Add Radius
```

Make sure the `app.yaml` file from `./demo/Chart/templates/app.yaml` is open in your editor. You will make some edits to this file to enable Radius.

Add the `annotations` property to `metadata`, and then add the `radapp.io/enabled: 'true'` annotation. The `'true'` must be surrounded in quotes.

The example below shows the updated `metadata` section after making the changes.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
  annotations:
    radapp.io/enabled: 'true'
spec:
...
```

Adding the `radapp.io/enabled: 'true'` annotation enables Radius for the deployment.

> Now that you have made the edits, save the file, and deploy the application again using Helm. Since the namespace and secret have already been created, we only need to run the `helm` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save the file after you have made the edits and deploy the application again using Helm. Since the namespace and secret have already been created, we only need to run the `helm` command.
```

```bash
helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
```

The output should look like:

```txt
> helm upgrade demo ./Chart -n demo --install
Release "demo" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 13 01:31:58 2023
NAMESPACE: demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 2
TEST SUITE: None
```

You should confirm that your output contains `REVISION: 2`, that means that the changes were applied.

> Run the following command to check if everything is running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the following command to confirm that everything is running:
```

```bash
kubectl get all -n demo
```

The output should look similar to the following:

```txt
> kubectl get all -n demo
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/webapp-79d5dfb99-mv6q9   1/1     Running   0          10m

NAME                   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/webapp   1/1     1            1           10m

NAME                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/webapp-79d5dfb99   1         1         1       10m
```

Notice that the `AGE` of `pod/webapp-...` reflects the time of your **first** deployment. Enabling Radius for an application does not change any of its behaviors, so Kubernetes did not need to restart the container.

> Now that we've enabled Radius, run this command to display the state of the Radius application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that Radius has been enabled, run this command to display the state of the Radius application:
```

```bash
rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
```

The output should look like this:

```txt
> rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
Displaying application: demo

Name: webapp (Applications.Core/containers)
Connections: (none)
Resources:
  webapp (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

> Now Radius has found the Kubernetes `Deployment` running your container and cataloged it as part of the application. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that Radius has found the Kubernetes `Deployment` running your container and cataloged it as part of the application. 
```

{{< alert title="💡 Application Name" color="info" >}}
Radius will use the Kubernetes namespace as the application name by default. 
{{< /alert >}}

> ## 6. Add Recipe

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 5. Add Recipe
```

This step will add a database (Redis Cache) to the application.

> You can create a Redis Cache using [Recipes]({{< ref "guides/recipes/overview" >}}) provided by Radius. The Radius community provides Recipes for running commonly used application dependencies, including Redis.

Reviewer 2: perhaps link to the community recipes repo here?

Reviewer 3: Yeah I hyperlinked directly to the local-dev Recipe for anyone who wants to see what's actually being deployed.

> You can create a Redis Cache using [Recipes]({{< ref "guides/recipes/overview" >}}) provided by Radius. The Radius community provides Recipes for running commonly used application dependencies, including Redis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a Redis Cache using [Recipes]({{< ref "guides/recipes/overview" >}}) provided by Radius. The Radius community provides [Recipes](https://github.com/radius-project/recipes) for running commonly used application dependencies, including Redis.
```

In this step you will:

- Add Redis to the application using a Recipe.
- Update the Kubernetes secret with the connection information from Redis.

First, check recipes installed in your environment by running:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash
```

rad recipe list
```

You will see output like this:

```
NAME      TYPE                                    TEMPLATE KIND  TEMPLATE VERSION  TEMPLATE
default   Applications.Datastores/sqlDatabases    bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/sqldatabases:latest
default   Applications.Messaging/rabbitMQQueues   bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/rabbitmqqueues:latest
default   Applications.Dapr/pubSubBrokers         bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/pubsubbrokers:latest
default   Applications.Dapr/secretStores          bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/secretstores:latest
default   Applications.Dapr/stateStores           bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/statestores:latest
default   Applications.Datastores/mongoDatabases  bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/mongodatabases:latest
default   Applications.Datastores/redisCaches     bicep                            radius.azurecr.io/recipes/local-dev/rediscaches:latest
```

> The recipe for `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches` is the one that will be used in this example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The recipe for `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches` is what you will use in this example.
```

{{< alert title="💡 Recipes" color="info" >}}
 Radius includes Recipes for local development when you use `rad init`. These **local-dev** Recipes run popular OSS technologies as containerized infrastructure without requiring a cloud account.
 
 In a production environment you can substitute recipes that will create cloud or on-premises dependencies instead.
{{< /alert >}}

Make sure the `app.yaml` file from `./demo/Chart/templates/app.yaml` is open in your editor. At the bottom of the file add the following text, including the `---`:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: radapp.io/v1alpha3
kind: Recipe
metadata:
  name: db
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
spec:
  type: Applications.Datastores/redisCaches
  secretName: redis-secret
```

Defining a `Recipe` object in Kubernetes will use a Radius Recipe to create dependencies for your application:

- The `.spec.type` field defines the type of resource to create. `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches` is the type for a Redis Cache.

> - The `.spec.secretName` field tells Radius where to store connection information. This is optional, and should be used to interoperate with other Kubernetes technologies that read from secrets. In our case we're using the secret to populate an environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `.spec.secretName` field tells Radius where to store connection information. This is optional, and should be used to interoperate with other Kubernetes technologies that read from secrets. This tutorial example uses the secret to populate an environment variable.
```

> Now that you have made the edits, save the file, and deploy the application again using Helm. Since the namespace and secret have already been created, we only need to run the `helm` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save the file after you have made the edits and deploy the application again using Helm. Since the namespace and secret have already been created, you only need to run the `helm` command.
```

If you do not see the additional resources starting with `redis-` then it's likely they are in a different Kubernetes namespace. Run `kubectl get all -A` to see everything.
{{< /alert >}}

Now that you have added a Recipe, run this command to display the state of the Radius application:

```bash
rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
```

The output should look like this:

```txt
> rad app graph -a demo -g default-demo
Displaying application: demo

Name: webapp (Applications.Core/containers)
Connections: (none)
Resources:
  webapp (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)

Name: db (Applications.Datastores/redisCaches)
Connections: (none)
Resources:
  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: apps/Deployment)
  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: core/Service)

```

`rad app graph` shows the **Application Graph** of the application. This includes:

- Entries for each major resource: `webapp` is an `Applications.Core/containers` and `db` is an `Applications.Datastores/redisCaches`.
- Connections between resources: (none yet, you will add this next).
- Resources that were created: see the Kubernetes `Deployment` listed for `webapp` and the Kubernetes `Deployment` and `Service` listed for `db`.

> The Redis Cache created by the recipe is visible as part of the application. You can also see the `Resources` created in Kubernetes that make up the Redis Cache. In a previous step you saw these listed by `kubectl`. Since Radius deployed the Recipe its know that these resources *logically* are part of the Redis Cache in the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Redis Cache created by the recipe is visible as part of the application. You can also see the `Resources` created in Kubernetes that make up the Redis Cache. In a previous step you saw these listed by `kubectl`. Since Radius deployed the Recipe, it knows that these resources *logically* are part of the Redis Cache in the application.
```

```bash
kubectl get secret -n demo redis-secret -o yaml
```

The output should look like the following:

```txt
>kubectl get secret -n demo redis-secret -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
data:
  connectionString: cmVkaXMtcjV0Y3JyYTNkN3VoNi5kZW1vLnN2Yy5jbHVzdGVyLmxvY2FsOjYzNzksYWJvcnRDb25uZWN0PUZhbHNl
  host: cmVkaXMtcjV0Y3JyYTNkN3VoNi5kZW1vLnN2Yy5jbHVzdGVyLmxvY2Fs
  password: ""
  port: NjM3OQ==
  tls: ZmFsc2U=
  url: cmVkaXM6Ly9yZWRpcy1yNXRjcnJhM2Q3dWg2LmRlbW8uc3ZjLmNsdXN0ZXIubG9jYWw6NjM3OS8wPw==
  username: ""
kind: Secret
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-09-13T01:49:36Z"
  name: redis-secret
  namespace: demo
  ownerReferences:
  - apiVersion: radapp.io/v1alpha3
    blockOwnerDeletion: true
    controller: true
    kind: Recipe
    name: db
    uid: d40567a1-cd52-4984-8321-6cb8bea5f798
  resourceVersion: "3672"
  uid: b1613fb0-09e6-4f76-8685-02f458e173b9
type: Opaque
```

The actual values like `connectionString` are Base64 encoded in this display. The `url` value in this secret is being used by the container to connect to the Redis Cache. For each type of Recipe, Radius stores the most-commonly used connection information for the convenience of application developers.

> ## 6. Add Connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 6. Add Connection
```

Reviewer 3: I think this supposed to be 6, the other numbers were off for a bit

> At this point we have added Radius to our existing container, and used a Recipe to create a Redis Cache. In this step you will use Radius Connections to inject settings into the container instead of explicitly managing a secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point you have added Radius to your existing container and used a Recipe to create a Redis Cache. In this step, you will use Radius Connections to inject settings into the container instead of explicitly managing a secret.
```

Make sure the `app.yaml` file from `./demo/Chart/templates/app.yaml` is open in your editor.

First, add another annotation. This time add the `radapp.io/connection-redis: 'db'` annotation, to `.metadata.annotations`. Order does not matter but indentation does.

Here's the updated content of `metadata`:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
  annotations:
    radapp.io/enabled: 'true'
    radapp.io/connection-redis: 'db'
spec:
...
```

The `radapp.io/connection-` annotation defines a connection from the container to some other dependency. Each connection has:

- A name: `redis` is the connection name this case.

> - A source: `db` is the name of the Recipe we created earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A source: `db` is the name of the Recipe you created earlier.
```

Connections are named because you can define many of them. The connection name is used to generate environment variables that are unique to the connection. 

> Since we're using a connection called `redis`, Radius will automatically define the `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` environment variable. The prefix of `CONNECTION_REDIS_` will be combined with each of the settings that you could see in the `redis-secret` secret in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since you're using a connection called `redis`, Radius will automatically define the `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` environment variable. The prefix of `CONNECTION_REDIS_` will be combined with each of the settings that you could see in the `redis-secret` secret in the previous step.
```

> We can remove the manual definition of `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` from `app.yaml` since Radius will provide it automatically. Find the `env` property and delete all of its contents. You can also remove `.spec.secretName` from the `Recipe`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can remove the manual definition of `CONNECTION_REDIS_URL` from `app.yaml` since Radius will provide it automatically. Find the `env` property and delete all of its contents. You can also remove `.spec.secretName` from the `Recipe`.
```

> The final contents of app.yaml look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final contents of `app.yaml` should look like:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: webapp
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
  annotations:
    radapp.io/enabled: 'true'
    radapp.io/connection-redis: 'db'
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: webapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: webapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: webapp
        image: {{ .Values.image.repository }}:{{ .Values.image.tag }}
        ports:
        - containerPort: 3000
---
apiVersion: radapp.io/v1alpha3
kind: Recipe
metadata:
  name: db
  namespace: {{ .Release.Namespace }}
spec:
  type: Applications.Datastores/redisCaches
```

> Now that you have made the edits, save the file, and deploy the application again using Helm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save the file after you have made the edits and deploy the application again using Helm.

```

  redis-r5tcrra3d7uh6 (kubernetes: core/Service)

```

## 7. Try it out

In this step you can access the application and explore its features. Since the container is running inside Kubernetes, you need to run a port-forward to use it locally.

Run:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n demo deployment/webapp 3000
```

If you are inside Codespaces this will open a new browser tab that you can use to access the webapp. 

If you are not using Codespaces then open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

<img src="./demo-with-redis-screenshot.png" alt="Screenshot of the demo container" width=500>
<br /><br />

Congrats! You're running your first Radius app.

You can use the homepage to view information about the container and its settings.

Navigate to the TODO List tab and test out the application. Using the TODO page will update the saved state in Redis.

<img src="./demo-with-todolist.png" alt="Screenshot of the todolist" width=500>
<br /><br />

When you're ready to move on to the next step, use `CTRL+C` to exit the command.

## Cleanup and next steps

To delete your app, run the following command:

```bash
helm uninstall demo -n demo
```

> In this tutorial you saw hands-on how-to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In summary, this tutorial walked through a hands-on example to show you how-to:
```
